Adding trusted certificates in Liberty

Secure communication with another process over https requires that the public
certificate of the other process be added as a "signer certificate" to a 
Liberty trust store. 

There are many variations in the way certificates 
and trust stores can be configured, this process covers only common 
configurations. 

The first step is to obtain the certificate. The second step is to add it to a truststore.  

1) Obtain the public certificate from the other process.

This can be done using a web browser,  or open source tools.  If you 
have direct access to the keystore of the other process, the key can be
extracted from it.  Use one of the following three methods. 
Steps might change slightly over time as 
browsers and open source tools are updated. 

1.1) Obtain certificate using a web browser
  Using Firefox, click on the padlock icon to the left of the URL.
  Click on the right arrow.
  Click on "more information"
  Click on "View Certificate"
  Click on "Details"
  Click on "Export"
  Select a filename and "save as x509 certificate".

1.2) Obtain certificate using openssl 
  Run the following command and capture the output:
  echo q | openssl s_client -showcerts -connect (hostname):(port)
  Port is usually 443 if not customized.  Note that https is not specified. 
  From the output of that command, copy the first certificate, including the lines 
  "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----" and "-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
  to a file. 
  

1.3) Extract public key directly from server's keystore file.
      keytool -rfc -export -keystore (filename) -alias (alias) -file publickey.cer
      
      In a newly created liberty keystore, there is only one key, and it's alias is "default". 
     

2) Add the certificate to a Liberty truststore.
Perform the following steps. 

2.1) Determine which file to modify
Trust stores are usually found in the resources/security folder of 
the Liberty server.  In the simplest default configuration, a single file
called key.jks functions as both the keystore and truststore. 

Another common configuration is to have one file as a key store, and
another as a trust store. 

Use of multiple trust stores is possible.  If you have this configuration,
examine the server configuration to determine which file(s) should receive the 
certificate. 

If you previously received an error message in messages.log, it may say which truststore
needs to be updated.

2.2) Make a backup copy of the keyfile just in case there are any problems.

2.3) Add the certificate using the keytool command.

keytool -importcert \
     -file <certificate to trust> \
     -alias <alias for the certificate> \
     -keystore <name of the trustore> \
     -storepass <password for the truststore> \
     -storetype jks
     
Restart the server.      
